# Database: Seeding

- [Introdução](#introduction)
- [Writing Seeders](#writing-seeders)
    - [Using Model Factories](#using-model-factories)
    - [Calling Additional Seeders](#calling-additional-seeders)
- [Running Seeders](#running-seeders)

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introdução

O Laravel inclui um método simples de criar seu banco de dados com dados de testes usando classes _seeder_. Todas as classes _seeder_ são armazenadas no diretório `database/seeds`. As classes de semente podem ter qualquer nome que você deseja, mas provavelmente deve seguir uma convenção sensata, como `UsersTableSeeder`, etc. Por padrão, uma classe `DatabaseSeeder` está definida para você. Nesta classe, você pode usar o método `call` para executar outras classes _seeder_, permitindo que você controle a ordem da execução.

<a name="writing-seeders"></a>
## Writing Seeders

To generate a seeder, execute the `make:seeder` [Artisan command](/docs/{{version}}/artisan). All seeders generated by the framework will be placed in the `database/seeds` directory:

    php artisan make:seeder UsersTableSeeder

A seeder class only contains one method by default: `run`. This method is called when the `db:seed` [Artisan command](/docs/{{version}}/artisan) is executed. Within the `run` method, you may insert data into your database however you wish. You may use the [query builder](/docs/{{version}}/queries) to manually insert data or you may use [Eloquent model factories](/docs/{{version}}/database-testing#writing-factories).

> {tip} [Mass assignment protection](/docs/{{version}}/eloquent#mass-assignment) is automatically disabled during database seeding.

As an example, let's modify the default `DatabaseSeeder` class and add a database insert statement to the `run` method:

    <?php

    use Illuminate\Database\Seeder;
    use Illuminate\Support\Facades\DB;

    class DatabaseSeeder extends Seeder
    {
        /**
         * Run the database seeds.
         *
         * @return void
         */
        public function run()
        {
            DB::table('users')->insert([
                'name' => str_random(10),
                'email' => str_random(10).'@gmail.com',
                'password' => bcrypt('secret'),
            ]);
        }
    }

<a name="using-model-factories"></a>
### Using Model Factories

Of course, manually specifying the attributes for each model seed is cumbersome. Instead, you can use [model factories](/docs/{{version}}/database-testing#writing-factories) to conveniently generate large amounts of database records. First, review the [model factory documentation](/docs/{{version}}/database-testing#writing-factories) to learn how to define your factories. Once you have defined your factories, you may use the `factory` helper function to insert records into your database.

For example, let's create 50 users and attach a relationship to each user:

    /**
     * Run the database seeds.
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function run()
    {
        factory(App\User::class, 50)->create()->each(function ($u) {
            $u->posts()->save(factory(App\Post::class)->make());
        });
    }

<a name="calling-additional-seeders"></a>
### Calling Additional Seeders

Within the `DatabaseSeeder` class, you may use the `call` method to execute additional seed classes. Using the `call` method allows you to break up your database seeding into multiple files so that no single seeder class becomes overwhelmingly large. Simply pass the name of the seeder class you wish to run:

    /**
     * Run the database seeds.
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function run()
    {
        $this->call([
            UsersTableSeeder::class,
            PostsTableSeeder::class,
            CommentsTableSeeder::class,
        ]);
    }

<a name="running-seeders"></a>
## Running Seeders

Once you have written your seeder, you may need to regenerate Composer's autoloader using the `dump-autoload` command:

    composer dump-autoload

Now you may use the `db:seed` Artisan command to seed your database. By default, the `db:seed` command runs the `DatabaseSeeder` class, which may be used to call other seed classes. However, you may use the `--class` option to specify a specific seeder class to run individually:

    php artisan db:seed

    php artisan db:seed --class=UsersTableSeeder

You may also seed your database using the `migrate:refresh` command, which will also rollback and re-run all of your migrations. This command is useful for completely re-building your database:

    php artisan migrate:refresh --seed
